There is limited understanding of change processes and long-term effects of low-intensity psychosocial interventions. We investigated these aspects in two brief problem-solving intervention formats for adolescents with elevated mental health symptoms and associated distress/impairment.
This qualitative study was nested within a school-based randomized controlled trial in New Delhi, India, which compared two problem-solving intervention formats: a lay counsellor-led format supported by printed materials (intervention arm) and printed problem-solving materials alone ("bibliotherapy" control arm). A total of 32 participants, ranging in age from 14 to 20 years (mean = 16.4 years, SD = 1.9) and comprising 21 males and 11 females, were interviewed across both trial arms at 12-month follow-up.
Five themes were derived using thematic framework analysis. The "impacts on symptoms and functioning" theme described symptomatic improvements and functional gains. "Processes underlying problem solving" reflected changes in positive beliefs, attitudes and emotions when confronted with problems, and the use of a more effective problem-solving coping style. "Experiences of problem-solving materials" covered benefits (e.g. access to relatable stories and readymade solutions) and limitations (e.g. diminishing use over time) of printed problem-solving handouts. "Role of supporting figures" accounted for the facilitating roles played by counsellors and trusted others. There were also accounts of researchers functioning as de facto counsellors in the bibliotherapy arm. "Recommended modifications for intervention delivery" included more flexible and private ways to access the interventions, greater personalization of the counselling process, more engaging and relevant supporting materials, and suggestions for widening access to the interventions in schools and community settings.
We infer from our qualitative analysis that changes in problem-solving style and problem orientation underpinned long-term symptomatic and functional improvements. Participants in the counsellor-led intervention appeared better able to sustain the use of problem-solving skills and generalize this approach beyond the original presenting problems. We attribute the differences between arms to the influence of direct advice and supportive interactions with counsellors. Practice implications are discussed.
Adolescent and youth mental health problems are increasingly becoming an area of concern in global health. Young people in sub-Saharan Africa experience significant adversities and systemic challenges despite technological advancements and demographic transition that the region is experiencing. We examined the nexus between experiences of loneliness, low social support, and presence of suicidal ideation among in-school adolescents in sub-Saharan Africa.
A total of 19,119 in-school adolescents from eight countries in sub-Saharan Africa were included in this study. Suicidal ideation was the main outcome variable and loneliness, and social support were the explanatory variables. Percentages were used to summarise the prevalence of suicidal ideation, loneliness, and social support among the in-school adolescents. A multivariable binary logistic regression analysis was later used to determine the association between suicidal ideation and the explanatory variables and covariates using Stata v16. Four models were tested using the regression analysis. We presented the regression results using adjusted odds ratios (aOR), with their respective 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
Overall, the past year prevalence of loneliness, peer support, one or more close friends, and suicidal ideation were 10%, 33.4%, 90.1%, and 14.5%, respectively. In-school adolescents who felt lonely (aOR = 1.88, 95% CI = 1.69, 2.09) were more likely to experience suicidal ideation. However, those who received peer support (aOR = 0.89, 95% CI = 0.82, 0.97) and had one or more close friends (aOR = 0.77, 95% CI = 0.68, 0.86) were less likely to experience suicidal ideation.
These results point to the significant roles of loneliness, and lack of social support, in understanding suicidal ideations. Countries in sub-Saharan Africa need to improve child and adolescent mental health policies and programmes to respond to these risk factors and mental health challenges. Programmes with a differential focus on the needs of males and females, younger and older adolescents will be important in the future.
Smartphone apps have the potential to address some of the current issues facing service provision for young people's mental health by improving the scalability of evidence-based mental health interventions. However, very few apps have been successfully implemented, and consensus on implementation measurement is lacking.
This review aims to determine the proportion of evidence-based mental health and well-being apps that have been successfully adopted and sustained in real-world settings. A secondary aim is to establish if key implementation determinants such as coproduction, acceptability, feasibility, appropriateness, and engagement contribute toward successful implementation and longevity.
Following the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) guidelines, an electronic search of 5 databases in 2021 yielded 18,660 results. After full-text screening, 34 articles met the full eligibility criteria, providing data on 29 smartphone apps studied with individuals aged 15 to 25 years.
Of 34 studies, only 10 (29%) studies were identified that were evaluating the effectiveness of 8 existing, commercially available mental health apps, and the remaining 24 (71%) studies reported the development and evaluation of 21 newly developed apps, of which 43% (9/21) were available, commercially or otherwise (eg, in mental health services), at the time of enquiry. Most studies addressed some implementation components including adoption, acceptability, appropriateness, feasibility, and engagement. Factors including high cost, funding constraints, and lengthy research processes impeded implementation.
Without addressing common implementation drivers, there is considerable redundancy in the translation of mobile mental health research findings into practice. Studies should embed implementation strategies from the outset of the planned research, build collaborations with partners already working in the field (academic and commercial) to capitalize on existing interventions and platforms, and modify and evaluate them for local contexts or target problems and populations.
PROSPERO CRD42021224365; https://tinyurl.com/4umpn85f.
This Viewpoint highlights how new insights into belief acquisition, storage, and change can transform our understanding of psychiatric disorders.
This study was conducted to explore the prevalence and associated factors of anxiety disorder among the population in an urban area of China.
A cross-sectional study.
The study was conducted in Shanghai, China.
Residents aged 30-70 years who have lived for over 6 months in Shanghai from December 2018 to April 2019 were included in the study.
The main study outcome was the prevalence of anxiety. The association of demographic information, medical expenses, living habits and sleep conditions with anxiety was also evaluated based on the collected data using structured questionnaires.
Among 5063 participants, 498 (9.84%, 95% CI: 9.02% to 10.66%) suffered from anxiety. The female sex, age 60-70 years old, lower educational level, partly self-expenses, higher family medical expenses in the past year, stroke history, hypertension history, dyslipidaemia history, diabetes history, drinking, sleeping on average <6 hours per day and waking up suffocating during sleep were associated with a higher prevalence of anxiety (p<0.05). Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that age, gender, type of medical expenses, family medical expenses, hours of sleep and waking up suffocating were related to anxiety (p<0.05).
Our findings showed an alarmingly high prevalence of anxiety in the population living in an urban area of China. Sleep time <6 hours and waking up suffocating had a significant association with anxiety. These findings suggest that future anxiety prevention programmes in urban areas should incorporate interventions targeted at these factors, such as improving residents' sleep quality.
Stress is a risk factor for emotion and energy metabolism disorders. However, the neurocircuitry mechanisms for emotion initiation and glucose mobilization underlying stress responses are unclear. Here we demonstrate that photoactivation of Gad2+ projection from the anterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (aBNST) to the arcuate nucleus (ARC) induces anxiety-like behavior as well as acute hyperglycemia. Photoinhibition of the circuit is anxiolytic and blocks hyperglycemia induced by restraint stress. Pharmacogenetic inhibition of the ARC
To 1) Describe the sociodemographic and risk factor profiles of a sample of patients with coronary disease, 2) Explore associations between illness perceptions and health literacy with sociodemographic characteristics and risk factors, health-related quality of life, anxiety and depression.
Conducted as part of the ESC Prevention of CVD Project and EUROASPIRE V survey, patients were consecutively and retrospectively identified 6 months to 2 years after an acute event or elective procedure from 12 countries and interviewed. 3,408 participants (76% male, mean age 64 years) were recruited, 16% were smokers, 38% obese, 60% physically inactive and 41% hypertensive. 40% had attended cardiac rehabilitation. More threatening illness perceptions were associated with female gender (P < 0.0001), lower income (P < 0.0001), lower education (P = 0.02), obesity (P < 0.0001), sedentary behaviour (P < 0.0001) and diabetes (P < 0.0001). Poorer health literacy was associated with obesity (P = 0.02) and sedentary behaviour (P = 0.0001). Threatening illness perceptions were strongly associated with anxiety, depression and poorer ratings of health-related quality of life after multivariable adjustment (all P < 0.001). Poor health literacy was associated with anxiety and depression (P < 0.0001) and poorer ratings of health-related quality of life (HeartQol scores P = 0.03). Results were consistent across regions of Europe, age, gender and socioeconomic strata.
Interventions like cardiac rehabilitation should be targeted at vulnerable groups given the strong associations between more threatening illness perceptions, lower health literacy, lower health related quality of life, and higher levels of anxiety and depression. The delivery and content of these interventions should be accessible for those with low health literacy.
Text mining methods such as topic modeling can offer valuable information on how and to whom internet-delivered cognitive behavioral therapies (iCBT) work. Although iCBT treatments provide convenient data for topic modeling, it has rarely been used in this context.
Our aims were to apply topic modeling to written assignment texts from iCBT for generalized anxiety disorder and explore the resulting topics' associations with treatment response. As predetermining the number of topics presents a considerable challenge in topic modeling, we also aimed to explore a novel method for topic number selection.
We defined 2 latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) topic models using a novel data-driven and a more commonly used interpretability-based topic number selection approaches. We used multilevel models to associate the topics with continuous-valued treatment response, defined as the rate of per-session change in GAD-7 sum scores throughout the treatment.
Our analyses included 1686 patients. We observed 2 topics that were associated with better than average treatment response: "well-being of family, pets, and loved ones" from the data-driven LDA model (B=-0.10 SD/session/∆topic; 95% CI -016 to -0.03) and "children, family issues" from the interpretability-based model (B=-0.18 SD/session/∆topic; 95% CI -0.31 to -0.05). Two topics were associated with worse treatment response: "monitoring of thoughts and worries" from the data-driven model (B=0.06 SD/session/∆topic; 95% CI 0.01 to 0.11) and "internet therapy" from the interpretability-based model (B=0.27 SD/session/∆topic; 95% CI 0.07 to 0.46).
The 2 LDA models were different in terms of their interpretability and broadness of topics but both contained topics that were associated with treatment response in an interpretable manner. Our work demonstrates that topic modeling is well suited for iCBT research and has potential to expose clinically relevant information in vast text data.
Anxiety disorders are common, highly distressing, and impairing conditions. Effective treatments exist, but many patients do not access or respond to them. Mindfulness-based interventions, such as mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) are popular and can decrease anxiety, but it is unknown how they compare to standard first-line treatments.
To determine whether MBSR is noninferior to escitalopram, a commonly used first-line psychopharmacological treatment for anxiety disorders.
This randomized clinical trial (Treatments for Anxiety: Meditation and Escitalopram [TAME]) included a noninferiority design with a prespecified noninferiority margin. Patients were recruited between June 2018 and February 2020. The outcome assessments were performed by blinded clinical interviewer at baseline, week 8 end point, and follow-up visits at 12 and 24 weeks. Of 430 individuals assessed for inclusion, 276 adults with a diagnosed anxiety disorder from 3 urban academic medical centers in the US were recruited for the trial, and 208 completed the trial.
Participants were 1:1 randomized to 8 weeks of the weekly MBSR course or the antidepressant escitalopram, flexibly dosed from 10 to 20 mg.
The primary outcome measure was anxiety levels as assessed with the Clinical Global Impression of Severity scale (CGI-S), with a predetermined noninferiority margin of -0.495 points.
The primary noninferiority sample consisted of 208 patients (102 in MBSR and 106 in escitalopram), with a mean (SD) age of 33 (13) years; 156 participants (75%) were female; 32 participants (15%) were African American, 41 (20%) were Asian, 18 (9%) were Hispanic/Latino, 122 (59%) were White, and 13 (6%) were of another race or ethnicity (including Native American or Alaska Native, more than one race, or other, consolidated owing to low numbers). Baseline mean (SD) CGI-S score was 4.44 (0.79) for the MBSR group and 4.51 (0.78) for the escitalopram group in the per-protocol sample and 4.49 (0.77) vs 4.54 (0.83), respectively, in the randomized sample. At end point, the mean (SD) CGI-S score was reduced by 1.35 (1.06) for MBSR and 1.43 (1.17) for escitalopram. The difference between groups was -0.07 (0.16; 95% CI, -0.38 to 0.23; P = .65), where the lower bound of the interval fell within the predefined noninferiority margin of -0.495, indicating noninferiority of MBSR compared with escitalopram. Secondary intent-to-treat analyses using imputed data also showed the noninferiority of MBSR compared with escitalopram based on the improvement in CGI-S score. Of patients who started treatment, 10 (8%) dropped out of the escitalopram group and none from the MBSR group due to adverse events. At least 1 study-related adverse event occurred for 110 participants randomized to escitalopram (78.6%) and 21 participants randomized to MBSR (15.4%).
The results from this randomized clinical trial comparing a standardized evidence-based mindfulness-based intervention with pharmacotherapy for the treatment of anxiety disorders found that MBSR was noninferior to escitalopram.
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03522844.
Post-stroke depression (PSD) is the most common mental disorder in post-stroke patients. Yet, the recommendations related to nursing in clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) have not been systematically sorted out. This study aimed to assess the methodological quality of current CPGs related to PSD and develop an algorithm using nursing process as a framework for nurses.
A systematic assessment of CPGs.
A systematic search for relevant CPGs published between 2017 and 2022 was conducted. Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation Ⅱ instrument was used to assess methodological quality. Recommendations related to nursing practice from high-quality CPGs were summarised and developed into an algorithm to provide reference for the standardised construction of nursing practice scheme.
497 records were initially identified from database searches and other sources. Finally, 12 CPGs were included, of which 6 were rated as high quality. A total of 35 recommendations from the 6 highest-scoring CPGs were summarised and used to develop an algorithm.
This study indicated deficiencies and variability in current available CPGs. Based on six high-quality CPGs, we developed an algorithm to facilitate nurses' adherence to CPGs and contribute to evidence-based nursing. In the future, more nursing specialists should participate in the formulation of the CPGs to provide nursing insights.
To 1) Describe the sociodemographic and risk factor profiles of a sample of patients with coronary disease, 2) Explore associations between illness perceptions and health literacy with sociodemographic characteristics and risk factors, health-related quality of life, anxiety and depression.
Conducted as part of the ESC Prevention of CVD Project and EUROASPIRE V survey, patients were consecutively and retrospectively identified 6 months to 2 years after an acute event or elective procedure from 12 countries and interviewed. 3,408 participants (76% male, mean age 64 years) were recruited, 16% were smokers, 38% obese, 60% physically inactive and 41% hypertensive. 40% had attended cardiac rehabilitation. More threatening illness perceptions were associated with female gender (P < 0.0001), lower income (P < 0.0001), lower education (P = 0.02), obesity (P < 0.0001), sedentary behaviour (P < 0.0001) and diabetes (P < 0.0001). Poorer health literacy was associated with obesity (P = 0.02) and sedentary behaviour (P = 0.0001). Threatening illness perceptions were strongly associated with anxiety, depression and poorer ratings of health-related quality of life after multivariable adjustment (all P < 0.001). Poor health literacy was associated with anxiety and depression (P < 0.0001) and poorer ratings of health-related quality of life (HeartQol scores P = 0.03). Results were consistent across regions of Europe, age, gender and socioeconomic strata.
Interventions like cardiac rehabilitation should be targeted at vulnerable groups given the strong associations between more threatening illness perceptions, lower health literacy, lower health related quality of life, and higher levels of anxiety and depression. The delivery and content of these interventions should be accessible for those with low health literacy.
Internet-based interventions (IBIs) are effective for the prevention and treatment of mental disorders and are valuable additions for improving routine care. However, the uptake of and adherence to IBIs are often limited. To increase the actual use of IBIs, it is important to identify factors for engaging with and adhering to IBIs.
We qualitatively evaluated barriers and facilitators regarding a portfolio of guided IBIs in green professions (farmers, gardeners, and foresters).
Interview participants were selected from 2 randomized controlled trials for either the prevention of depression (Prevention of Depression in Agriculturists [PROD-A]) or the reduction of pain interference (Preventive Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for Chronic Pain in Agriculturists [PACT-A]) in green professions. The intervention group in PROD-A (N=180) participated in an IBI program, receiving access to 1 of 6 symptom-tailored IBIs. The intervention group in PACT-A (N=44) received access to an IBI for chronic pain. Overall, 41 semistructured qualitative interviews were conducted and transcribed verbatim. Barriers and facilitators were identified via inductive qualitative content analysis, with 2 independent coders reaching almost perfect intercoder reliability (Cohen κ=0.92). A quantitative follow-up survey (30/41, 73%) was conducted to validate the results. Subgroup analyses were performed based on intervention characteristics.
We identified 42 barriers and 26 facilitators, which we assigned to 4 superordinate categories related to the intervention (20 barriers; 17 facilitators), work (4 barriers; 1 facilitator), individual (13 barriers; 8 facilitators), and technical (5 barriers; 0 facilitators) aspects. Key barriers (identified by at least 50% of the interviewees) were time-consuming work life (29/40, 73%) and time-consuming private life (23/40, 58%). Similarly, the most frequently identified facilitators included presence of motivation, curiosity, interest and perseverance (30/40, 75%), flexible time management at work (25/40, 63%), and support from family and friends (20/40, 50%). Although agreement with barriers in the quantitative follow-up survey was rather low (mean 24%, SD 11%), agreement with facilitators was substantially higher (mean 80%, SD 13%). Differences in agreement rates were found particularly between intervention completers and noncompleters. Completers agreed significantly more often that perceived IBI success; being motivated, curious, interested, and perseverant; and having a persisting level of psychological strain have been facilitating. Noncompleters agreed more often with experiencing the e-coach contact as insufficient and technical problems as hindering for intervention completion.
Based on these results, strategies such as customization of modules for more flexible and adaptive use; video chat options with the e-coach; options to facilitate social support by family, friends, or other participants; or using prompts to facilitate training completion can be derived. These approaches could be evaluated in further quantitative research designs in terms of their potential to enhance intervention use in this occupational group.
German Clinical Trials Register DRKS00014000, https://tinyurl.com/3bukfr48; German Clinical Trials Register DRKS0001461, https://tinyurl.com/ebsn4sns.
Data on the impact of desmoid type fibromatosis (DTF) on emotional distress and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is sparse.
In this prospective cross-sectional study, patients with DTF and healthy controls were asked to fill the EORTC QLQ-C30, GAD-7, and PHQ-9 questionnaires. The objectives were to determine HRQoL, anxiety, and depression in patients with DTF.
Two hundred four subjects (102 DTF patients and 102 healthy controls) were recruited. The median age of DTF patients at recruitment into the study was 31 years (IQR, 25-37 years). There was a female preponderance with a male:female ratio of 1:1.83. Appendicular skeleton and abdomen sites were most commonly involved in 59% and 22.5% respectively. About half (54%) of patients were currently on sorafenib and 41% were under active surveillance. The mean global health status in DTF patients was 65.58 ± 22.64, significantly lower than healthy controls. Similarly, DTF patients scored low on all functional scales except cognitive functioning. The symptom scale showed a significantly higher symptom burden of fatigue, pain, insomnia, and financial difficulties. Anxiety and depression was observed in 39.22% and 50% of DTF patients respectively. DTF patients had higher rates of mild, moderate, and severe anxiety and depression compared to healthy controls.
DTF patients have significant symptom burden, poor functioning, and heightened anxiety and depression as compared to healthy controls. HRQoL, anxiety, and depression should be routinely used to assess symptom burden and treatment efficacy in DTF patients.
Associations between breastfeeding intention, duration and post-natal depression (PND) have been shown in pre-COVID-19 studies. However, studies during COVID-19 have not examined the associations between breastfeeding intention, breastfeeding practices, and PND in an international sample of post-natal women, taking into consideration COVID-19 related factors. This is the first study to address this gap as both PND and breastfeeding may be affected by COVID-19, and have important long-term effects on women's and infant's health. A cross-sectional internet-based survey was conducted with 3253 post-natal women from five countries: Brazil, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and the United Kingdom from July to November 2021. The results showed that women who intended to breastfeed during pregnancy had lower odds of having PND than women who did not intend to. Women who had no breastfeeding intention but actually breastfed had greater odds (AOR 1.75) of having PND than women who intended to breastfeed and actually breastfed. While there was no statistical significance in expressed breast milk feeding in multivariable logistic regression models, women who had shorter duration of breastfeeding directly on breast than they planned had greater odds (AOR 1.58) of having PND than those who breastfed longer than they planned even after adjusting for covariates including COVID-19-related variables. These findings suggested the importance of working with women on their breastfeeding intention. Tailored support is required to ensure women's breastfeeding needs are met and at the same time care for maternal mental health during and beyond the pandemic.
The anterior cingulate cortex (AC) as a part of prefrontal cortex plays a crucial role in behavioural regulation, which is profoundly disturbed in suicide. Citrate synthase (CS) is a key enzyme of tricarboxylic acid cycle fundamental for brain energetics and neurotransmitter synthesis, which are deteriorated in suicidal behaviour. However, CS activity has not been yet studied in brain structures of suicide victims. CS activity assay was performed bilaterally on frozen samples of the rostral part of the AC of 24 violent suicide completers (21 males and 3 females) with unknown psychiatric diagnosis and 24 non-suicidal controls (20 males and 4 females). Compared to controls, suicide victims revealed decreased CS activity in the right AC, however, insignificant. Further statistical analysis of laterality index revealed the left-lateralisation of CS activity in the AC in male suicides compared to male controls (U-test P = 0.0003, corrected for multiple comparisons). The results were not confounded by postmortem interval, blood alcohol concentration, age, and brain weight. Our findings suggest that disturbed CS activity in the AC plays a role in suicide pathogenesis and correspond with our previous morphological and molecular studies of prefrontal regions in suicide.
Suicide rates among young people are rising. Health care visits provide opportunities for identification and intervention, yet studies have been limited by small or circumscribed samples. This study sought to expand the knowledge base by examining health care encounters and diagnoses among young people who later died by suicide.
This case-control study examined diagnoses of mental and general medical disorders and health care utilization in the 30 and 365 days before suicide death in nine large U.S. health care systems. Data (years 2000-2015) from 445 suicide decedents ages 10-24 years were matched with data from 4,450 control group patients.
Suicide decedents were more likely to have at least one mental disorder diagnosis (51% vs. 16%; adjusted OR [AOR]=5.74, 95% CI=4.60-7.18) and had higher rates of nearly all mental health conditions. Substance use disorders were common (12%) and more likely (AOR=8.50, 95% CI=5.53-13.06) among suicide decedents. More than one in three (42%) suicide decedents had a health care visit in the month before death, and nearly all (88%) had a visit in the previous year.
Despite the greater likelihood of suicide associated with mental disorder diagnoses, such disorders were present among only 51% of suicide decedents. High rates of health care utilization among suicide decedents indicate a need for improving identification of mental health conditions and suicide risk across the health care system. Increased substance use screening may help identify youths at high risk because substance use disorders were significantly more prevalent and likely among suicide decedents.
Suicidal behavior and substance use disorders (SUDs) are important public health concerns. Prior suicide attempts and SUDs are two of the most consistent predictors of suicide death, and clarifying the role of SUDs in the transition from suicide attempt to suicide death could inform prevention efforts.
We used national Swedish registry data to identify individuals born 1960-1985, with an index suicide attempt in 1997-2017 (
In univariate models, risk of suicide death was higher among individuals with any SUD registration [hazard ratios (HRs) = 2.68-3.86]. In multivariate models, effects of specific SUDs were attenuated, but remained elevated for AUD (HR = 1.86 95% confidence intervals 1.68-2.05), opiates [HR = 1.58 (1.37-1.82)], sedatives [HR = 1.93 (1.70-2.18)], and multiple substances [HR = 2.09 (1.86-2.35)]. In secondary analyses, the effects of most, but not all, SUD were exacerbated by higher levels of genetic liability to suicide death, and among individuals who were younger at their index suicide attempt.
In the presence of a strong predictor of suicide death - a prior attempt - substantial predictive power is still attributable to SUDs. Individuals with SUDs may warrant additional suicide screening and prevention efforts, particularly in the context of a family history of suicidal behavior or early onset of suicide attempt.
Youth suicide rates have increased markedly in some countries. This study aimed to estimate the population-attributable risk of psychiatric disorders associated with suicide among Taiwanese youth aged 10-24 years.
Data were obtained from the National Death Registry and National Health Insurance (NHI) claims database between 2007 and 2019. Youth who died by suicide were included, and comparisons, 1:10 matched by age and sex, were randomly selected from the Registry for NHI beneficiaries. We used multivariable logistic regression to estimate suicide odds ratios for psychiatric disorders. The population-attributable fractions (PAF) were calculated for each psychiatric disorder.
A total of 2345 youth suicide and 23 450 comparisons were included. Overall, 44.8% of suicides had a psychiatric disorder, while only 7.9% of the comparisons had a psychiatric disorder. The combined PAF for all psychiatric disorders was 55.9%. The top three psychiatric conditions of the largest PAFs were major depressive disorder, dysthymia, and sleep disorder. In the analysis stratified by sex, the combined PAF was 45.5% for males and 69.2% for females. The PAF among young adults aged 20-24 years (57.0%) was higher than among adolescents aged 10-19 years (48.0%).
Our findings of high PAF from major depressive disorder, dysthymia, and sleep disorder to youth suicides suggest that youth suicide prevention that focuses on detecting and treating mental illness may usefully target these disorders.
The efficacy of medication and psychotherapy for adolescent depression is controversial, so we conducted a meta-analysis to evaluate the efficacy of combination therapy.
We followed the PRISMA checklist in completing the meta-analysis. Relevant literature was searched in PubMed, Web of Science and Embase, Chinese databases CNKI and WanFang Data. We included the literature on the comparison of the fluoxetine plus psychotherapy or cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) and each treatment alone for adolescent depression published in 1980-2021. All statistical analyses were performed using Stata software.
After careful review, a total of 489 relevant articles were retrieved, and 13 studies were finally included. In comparison with the control group (fluoxetine alone), fluoxetine plus CBT achieved higher response rate (RR=1.12, 95% CI: 1.04, 1.21), lower incidence of adverse Reactions (RR=0.62,95% CI:0.40,0.96), lower proportion of suicide or self-injury (RR=0.94,95% CI:0.74,1.20), and lower one-year recurrence rate (RR=0.27, 95% CI: 0.16, 0.45). Before treatment, there were no significant differences in Hamilton Depression Scale score (HAMD), Children's Depression Rating Scale Revised (CDRS-R) score, and Clinical Global Impression (CGI) Severity score. After treatment, HAMD score (SMD=-1.01, 95% CI:-1.39,-0.63), CDRS-R score (SMD= -0.10,95% CI:-0.26,-0.07), and CGI score (SMD = -0.22, 95% CI: -0.54, -0.10) were significantly lower in the combined treatment group than in the control group.
Adolescents simultaneously treated with fluoxetine and CBT had significantly reduced incidence of depressive symptoms, suicide or NSSI, adverse reactions, and one-year recurrence of symptoms, than adolescents treated with fluoxetine alone. This indicates fluoxetine plus CBT may be superior to fluoxetine alone for the clinical treatment of adolescent depression.
Insomnia or poor sleep quality is associated with impaired physical, psychological, and mental functions that individuals require for health and well-being.
The study aimed to evaluate the effects of yoga practice in managing insomnia and its related complications, such as cognitive failure, stress, and impaired quality of life (QoL), for individuals suffering from acute insomnia.
The research team designed a randomized controlled trial.
The study took place at OPD of Dept. of Panchkarma Uttarakhand Ayurveda University in Uttarakhand, India.
Participants were 24 patients at the hospital with acute insomnia between September 1 and September 30, 2021.
The research team randomly allocated 12 participants to the yoga group, the intervention group, and 12 to the control group. The yoga group participated in yoga practice for 60 minutes per day including Jala Neti- thrice in a week, Yoga Nidra- once in a week for 30 days, in addition to three days for an orientation program. The control group received conventional treatment.
At baseline and postintervention on day 30, the research team measured outcomes using the Perceived stress scale (PSS), Cognitive Failure Questionnaire (CFQ), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), and the World Health Organization Quality of Life Abbreviated (WHO-QOL-BREF). The team assessed the data for normality and applied the paired t test and an independent t test.
Postintervention, the decrease in the yoga group's stress and sleep quality were significantly greater, except for cognitive failure, than those of the control group. For the yoga group, three aspects of QOL-physical, psychological, and social-showed significant improvements but environmental health didn't.
Yoga may be helpful in the management of insomnia and other sleep-related disorders in conjunction with pharmacotherapies and psychological interventions. Yoga can enhance QOL by improving overall mental health status and sleep quality and decreasing stress.
Insomnia contributes to individual mental and physical health and relationship well-being. Veterans' PTSD symptoms are associated with their own insomnia. However, research has not explored whether and how veterans' PTSD symptoms are associated with their partners' insomnia. The present study examined the association between veterans' PTSD symptom severity and veterans' and partners' insomnia. Veterans (n = 192) and their partners (n = 192; total N = 384) completed baseline assessments in a PTSD treatment study for veterans with PTSD and their partners. Path analysis was used to examine the relation between veterans' PTSD symptom severity, as measured by the PTSD symptom checklist-5 (PCL-5) and veterans' and partners' insomnia, as measured by the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI). Veterans' full-scale PCL-5 was positively related to veterans' and partners' insomnia. For veterans, intrusion and arousal symptoms were positively related to their own insomnia severity, while veterans' negative alterations in cognition and mood were associated with partners' insomnia severity. In exploratory analyses, partners' depressive symptoms fully mediated the relation between veterans' negative cognitions and mood and partners' insomnia. PTSD symptoms impact both veterans' and partners' insomnia. However, different PTSD symptom clusters were related to insomnia for each partner, and the link for partners was explained by their own depression symptoms. PTSD, insomnia, and integrated treatments should consider strategies for including partners in treatment to address these interconnected problems.
The study explored the differences in nightmare, insomnia, depression, anxiety, and cognitive deficits among adolescents and the chain mediating effects of insomnia, depression, and anxiety on the relationship between nightmares and cognitive deficits in adolescents.
An online survey was used to collect demographic data of 6014 adolescents and assess nightmare, insomnia, depression, anxiety, and cognitive deficits using the Chinese Version of Nightmare Distress Questionnaire, Insomnia Severity Index, Patient Health Questionnaire 9, Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7, and Perceived Deficits Questionnaire-Depression. Spearman correlation analysis and the SPSS function "PROCESS macro" were used for correlation and mediation analyses, respectively.
Female adolescents, senior high school, and poor academic performance had higher nightmare, insomnia, and cognitive deficit scores; those living in the city had higher depression and anxiety scores. Cognitive deficits were positively correlated with nightmares, insomnia, depression, and anxiety. Further, insomnia, depression, and anxiety had a chain mediating effect between nightmares and cognitive deficits in adolescents. Nightmares indirectly affect cognition deficits by affecting insomnia and then depression and anxiety symptoms.
As this was a cross-sectional study, the causal relationship between the variables could not be determined. Moreover, reporting bias and volunteer bias might be present.
These findings suggest that clinicians should identify adolescents with frequent nightmares early and provide timely treatment to minimize negative outcomes and possibly limit the chronicity of nightmare disorder. It is significant to maintain the physical and mental health development of adolescents to reduce the risk of insomnia, depression, anxiety, and cognitive deficits.
This study aims to estimate the prevalence of insomnia and related risk factors during the Delta wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in the Kingdom of Bahrain.
An analytical cross-sectional study included 646 individuals from the general population aged 18 years and over, living in the Kingdom of Bahrain during the Delta wave of the pandemic. Data were collected by an anonymous online questionnaire using the snowball-sampling technique between June and August 2021. We used the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) and the generalized anxiety disorder scale (GAD-7) to measure the level of insomnia and anxiety, respectively.
A total of 646 individuals participated in the study. Most of the participants were females (86%). The mean age was 38.7 ± 12.7 years (age range 18-89) and around half of the participants were 35 years or older. Clinical insomnia was reported by 20% [95% CI, 16.9-20.0] of the participants, and 50.1% [95% CI, 46.2-50.1] had subclinical insomnia according to ISI. The proportion of insomnia was significantly higher among females, healthcare workers, participants with lower educational levels, a lower or decreased monthly income during the pandemic, or participants who reported anxiety symptoms (all 
The burden of insomnia was significant among the general population in the Kingdom of Bahrain during the Delta wave of the COVID-19 pandemic despite the low severity of this variant. Mental health programs are a high priority during the pandemic and afterward. Detection of insomnia could be used to treat some mental health problems at an early stage.
Integrating sleep health into primary care is a promising approach to narrow the treatment gap for insomnia in older adults but data regarding the epidemiological characteristics of insomnia among elderly primary care attenders (EPCAs) are very limited. This study examined the prevalence and correlates of clinical insomnia among Chinese EPCAs.
By using two-stage consecutive sampling method, a total of 757 EPCAs were recruited from seven urban and six rural primary care centers in Wuhan, China. The Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) and the Geriatric Depression Scale (15 item version) were administered to assess insomnia severity and depressive symptoms, respectively.
The two-week prevalence of clinical insomnia (ISI score ≥ 15) was 28.9%. Significant correlates of clinical insomnia were: female sex (vs. male, OR = 2.13, 
The high prevalence of clinical insomnia among Chinese EPCAs suggests a high level of sleep health need in older patients in China's primary care settings. Considering the many negative outcomes associated with insomnia, it is necessary to integrate sleep health into primary care in China.
Cadmium (Cd) and excess molybdenum (Mo) have multiple organ toxicity, and testis is one of their important target organs, but the reproductive toxicity of Mo and Cd combined treatment is still unclear. To explore the effects of Mo and Cd co-exposure on DNA damage and autophagy from the insight of ATM/AMPK/mTOR axis in duck testes, we randomly assigned 40 healthy 8-day-old ducks to control, Mo (100 mg/kg Mo), Cd (4 mg/kg Cd), and Mo + Cd groups for 16 weeks. Results found that Mo and/or Cd exposure caused trace elements imbalance, oxidative stress with a decrease in the activities of GSH-Px, CAT, T-SOD and GSH content, an increase in the concentrations of H
 The removable partial denture must keep health of the remaining teeth and the supporting tissues through the distribution of chewing forces on the abutment teeth and alveolar process.This study aimed to evaluate stress distribution with canines-supported mandibular overdenture retained by two different attachment types: ball attachments or resilient telescopic crowns.
 Two 3-dimensional finite element models consisting of the cortical mandible bone, cancellous mandible bone, oral mucosa, canines, periodontal ligaments, the two attachment types, and overdenture were simulated. The models were imported into the mathematical analysis software Ansys Workbench V 15.0. All materials were considered to be homogeneous, isotropic, and linearly elastic. A vertical bilateral load of 120 N was applied to the central fossa of the first molars. The von Mises stress was calculated for canines, cortical, and cancellous bone.
 The maximum von Mises stress of the ball attachments model was 35.61, 4.28, 7.82, and 1.29 MPa for canines, cortical alveolar bone of canines, cortical alveolar bone at the distal end of the overdenture, and cancellous alveolar bone of canines, respectively. The maximum von Mises stress of the resilient telescopic crowns model was 39.22, 4.74, 7.06, and 1.05 MPa for canines, cortical alveolar bone of canines, cortical alveolar bone at the distal end of the overdenture, and cancellous alveolar bone of canines, respectively.
 Resilient telescopic crowns distribute the stresses between canines, alveolar bone of canines, and overdenture supporting alveolar bone. Ball attachments transfer less stress to the canines and cortical alveolar bone of the canines, but more stress to the cancellous alveolar bone of canines and alveolar bone at distal end of the overdenture. Resilient telescopic crowns are preferred over ball attachment when the abutment teeth have good periodontal support.
Stress is a risk factor for emotion and energy metabolism disorders. However, the neurocircuitry mechanisms for emotion initiation and glucose mobilization underlying stress responses are unclear. Here we demonstrate that photoactivation of Gad2+ projection from the anterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (aBNST) to the arcuate nucleus (ARC) induces anxiety-like behavior as well as acute hyperglycemia. Photoinhibition of the circuit is anxiolytic and blocks hyperglycemia induced by restraint stress. Pharmacogenetic inhibition of the ARC
Nearly all workers and industry sectors have been affected by the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic in some form since March 2020. However, the pandemic-related stressors experienced in the workplace may vary from industry to industry and may have disproportionally affected some workers. This study investigates increased stress levels, stressor events, and other perceptions of stress from at-risk workers during COVID-19.
An in-depth work-related stress survey that incorporated many aspects of work, life, work-life balance, and the health of employer-employee relationships was developed with a focus on COVID-19-related stressors. The cross-sectional survey was distributed online through professional networks from October to November 2021. The survey results were statically analyzed using Kruskal-Wallis one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) after grouping the industry sectors into the four groups to determine trends within these groupings.
The survey was completed by 670 workers in sectors such as manual labor, business/office service, healthcare, and education. A variety of trends were determined between the occurrence of COVID-19 and work stress which had, in some cases, affected some industry sectors to a larger degree than others. More than 50% of the participants reported experiencing an increased workload since the onset of the pandemic with some sectors, like healthcare, reporting an increased workload more frequently at 80%. Around 55% of respondents believed they could be exposed to COVID-19 in their workplace, ranging from 52% of business/office service workers to 77% of healthcare workers.
As workplaces navigate past the pandemic, occupational stress should be addressed head-on through workplaces providing expanded resources so as to assure work stress associated with future pandemics are mitigated appropriately. Whether the stressor is associated with irregular shift work or psychosocial aspects (i.e. relying on coworkers), many of these stressors have the possibility to become exacerbated by external factors such as pandemics.
Up to 10% of children and young people have a specific phobia that can significantly affect their mental health, development and daily functioning. Cognitive-behavioural therapy-based interventions remain the dominant treatment, but limitations to their provision warrant investigation into low-intensity alternatives. One-session treatment is one such alternative that shares cognitive-behavioural therapy principles but has a shorter treatment period.
This research investigated the non-inferiority of one-session treatment to cognitive-behavioural therapy for treating specific phobias in children and young people. The acceptability and cost-effectiveness of one-session treatment were examined.
A pragmatic, multicentre, non-inferiority randomised controlled trial, with embedded economic and qualitative evaluations.
There were 26 sites, including 12 NHS trusts.
Participants were aged 7-16 years and had a specific phobia defined in accordance with established international clinical criteria.
Participants were randomised 1 : 1 to receive one-session treatment or usual-care cognitive-behavioural therapy, and were stratified according to age and phobia severity. Outcome assessors remained blind to treatment allocation.
The primary outcome measure was the Behavioural Avoidance Task at 6 months' follow-up. Secondary outcomes included the Anxiety Disorder Interview Schedule, Child Anxiety Impact Scale, Revised Children's Anxiety and Depression Scale, a goal-based outcome measure, Child Health Utility 9D, EuroQol-5 Dimensions Youth version and resource usage. Treatment fidelity was assessed using the Cognitive Behaviour Therapy Scale for Children and Young People and the One-Session Treatment Rating Scale.
A total of 274 participants were recruited, with 268 participants randomised to one-session treatment (
The COVID-19 pandemic meant that 48 children and young people could not complete the primary outcome measure. Service waiting times resulted in some participants not starting therapy before follow-up.
One-session treatment for specific phobia in UK-based child mental health treatment centres is as clinically effective as multisession cognitive-behavioural therapy and highly likely to be cost-saving. Future work could involve improving the implementation of one-session treatment through training and commissioning of improved care pathways.
This trial is registered as ISRCTN19883421.
This project was funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in 
A phobia is an intense, ongoing fear of an everyday object or situation. The phobia causes distress and the person with the phobia avoids that object or situation. Many children and young people have phobias that affect their daily lives. Cognitive–behavioural therapy helps by changing what people do or think when they have a phobia and is the most common treatment approach. However, cognitive–behavioural therapy is expensive, takes time and is not always easy to get. Different treatments are needed to help children and young people with specific phobias. One such therapy is one-session treatment, which works in similar ways to cognitive–behavioural therapy but takes place over one main 3-hour session. Our study, called ASPECT (Alleviating Specific Phobias Experienced by Children Trial), compared these two treatments to examine whether or not one-session treatment is as effective as cognitive–behavioural therapy. Overall, 274 children and young people aged 7–16 years from 26 sites nationally helped with our research, of whom 268 received either cognitive–behavioural therapy or one-session treatment. The results at 6 months found that one-session treatment and cognitive–behavioural therapy worked as well as each other for treating phobias in children and young people. We also found evidence that one-session treatment is cheaper than cognitive–behavioural therapy. We spoke with children and young people, their parents/guardians and the therapists of the single-session treatment, and we found one-session treatment to be acceptable for their needs. Future research could explore how to make one-session treatment more easily available for children and young people with specific phobias because it can save time and money, and works just as well as cognitive–behavioural therapy.
Between 2015 and 2020 the Alleviating Specific Phobias Experienced by Children Trial (ASPECT) was conducted in the UK to examine the non-inferiority of One-Session Treatment in comparison to Cognitive Behavioural Therapy based interventions for children and young people with specific phobias. A nested qualitative evaluation was conducted as part of this trial to examine the acceptability of One-Session Treatment. Qualitative interviews were conducted with children and young people taking part in the trial, their parents/guardians, and clinicians delivering the intervention, about their experiences and the acceptability of One Session Treatment. Interviews were digitally recorded and transcribed verbatim. Analysis followed a qualitative framework approach, a widely used method of analysing primary qualitative data pertaining to healthcare practices with policy relevance. Stakeholder groups found One Session Treatment to be an acceptable intervention and barriers and facilitators for its implementation into services were also identified. Potential barriers included challenges to patient flow and treatment scepticism, whilst facilitators included adopting a child-centred approach, child readiness and suitability, opportunity for increased momentum, parental support and involvement, and proximal and distal gains. For One Session Treatment's successful implementation into services, consideration of these barriers is needed and suitability guidance for its use in this population should be developed. Further research exploring children and young people's experiences of receiving Cognitive Behavioural Therapy and its acceptability in comparison to One Session Treatment would be welcomed.
In the UK, around 93,000 (0.8%) children and young people (CYP) are experiencing specific phobias that have a substantial impact on daily life. The current gold-standard treatment-multi-session cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) - is effective at reducing specific phobia severity; however, CBT is time consuming, requires specialist CBT therapists, and is often at great cost and limited availability. A briefer variant of CBT called one session treatment (OST) has been found to offer similar clinical effectiveness for specific phobia as multi-session CBT. The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of OST compared to multi-session CBT for CYP with specific phobias through the Alleviating Specific Phobias Experienced by Children Trial (ASPECT), a two-arm, pragmatic, multi-centre, non-inferiority randomised controlled trial.
CYP aged seven to 16 years with specific phobias were recruited nationally via Health and Social Care pathways, remotely randomised to the intervention group (OST) or the control group (CBT-based therapies) and analysed (n = 267). Resource use based on NHS and personal social services perspective and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) measured by EQ-5D-Y were collected at baseline and at six-month follow-up. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was calculated, and non-parametric bootstrapping was conducted to capture the uncertainty around the ICER estimates. The results were presented on a cost-effectiveness acceptability curve (CEAC). A set of sensitivity analyses (including taking a societal perspective) were conducted to assess the robustness of the primary findings.
After adjustment and bootstrapping, on average CYP in the OST group incurred less costs (incremental cost was -£302.96 (95% CI -£598.86 to -£28.61)) and maintained similar improvement in QALYs (QALYs gained 0.002 (95% CI - 0.004 to 0.008)). The CEAC shows that the probability of OST being cost-effective was over 95% across all the WTP thresholds. Results of a set of sensitivity analyses were consistent with the primary outcomes.
Compared to CBT, OST produced a reduction in costs and maintained similar improvement in QALYs. Results from both primary and sensitivity analyses suggested that OST was highly likely to be cost saving.
ISRCTN19883421 (30/11/2016).
5%-10% children and young people (CYP) experience specific phobias that impact daily functioning. Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (CBT) is recommended but has limitations. One Session Treatment (OST), a briefer alternative incorporating CBT principles, has demonstrated efficacy. The Alleviating Specific Phobias Experienced by Children Trial (ASPECT) investigated the non-inferiority of OST compared to multi-session CBT for treating specific phobias in CYP.
ASPECT was a pragmatic, multi-center, non-inferiority randomized controlled trial in 26 CAMHS sites, three voluntary agency services, and one university-based CYP well-being service. CYP aged 7-16 years with specific phobia were randomized to receive OST or CBT. Clinical non-inferiority and a nested cost-effectiveness evaluation was assessed 6-months post-randomization using the Behavioural Avoidance Task (BAT). Secondary outcome measures included the Anxiety Disorder Interview Schedule, Child Anxiety Impact Scale, Revised Children's Anxiety Depression Scale, goal-based outcome measure, and EQ-5DY and CHU-9D, collected blind at baseline and six-months.
268 CYPs were randomized to OST (n = 134) or CBT (n = 134). Mean BAT scores at 6 months were similar across groups in both intention-to-treat (ITT) and per-protocol (PP) populations (CBT: 7.1 (ITT, n = 76), 7.4 (PP, n = 57), OST: 7.4 (ITT, n = 73), 7.6 (PP, n = 56), on the standardized scale-adjusted mean difference for CBT compared to OST -0.123, 95% CI -0.449 to 0.202 (ITT), mean difference -0.204, 95% CI -0.579 to 0.171 (PP)). These findings were wholly below the standardized non-inferiority limit of 0.4, suggesting that OST is non-inferior to CBT. No between-group differences were found on secondary outcomes. OST marginally decreased mean service use costs and maintained similar mean Quality Adjusted Life Years compared to CBT.
One Session Treatment has similar clinical effectiveness to CBT for specific phobias in CYP and may be a cost-saving alternative.
Mobile health applications for mental health are widely accessible but most have had limited research evaluation. Virtual reality exposure therapy is an emerging treatment for specific phobias. Most virtual reality studies have investigated high-end virtual reality devices, typically only available in research and limited clinical settings for a single phobia. This study evaluated the effectiveness of oVRcome, a mobile health application combining self-guided virtual reality exposure and cognitive behaviour therapy, for five specific phobias.
This is a 2-arm 6-week randomised controlled trial, with a waitlist control group and follow-up at week 12. Participants were required to live in New Zealand; be aged 18-64 years; have a fear of flying, heights, spiders, dogs and needles; score above 4 on the Brief Standard Self-rating scale for phobic patients; and have access to a smartphone and Internet. oVRcome consists of six modules of psychoeducation, relaxation, mindfulness, cognitive techniques, exposure through virtual reality and relapse prevention over 6 weeks. The primary outcome was the change from baseline to week 6 on the Severity Measures for Specific Phobia - Adults. All analyses were performed on intention-to-treat set.
A total of 126 participants were randomised, and 109 completed the follow-up at week 6, for a retention rate of 86.5%. The mean change in Severity Measures for Specific Phobia - Adults score from baseline to week 6 was greater in the active group compared with the waitlist group (active group -20.53 [standard deviation = 8.24]; waitlist group: - 12.31 [standard deviation = 10.66]; 
Self-guided use of the oVRcome app was effective at reducing severity of specific phobia symptoms in a sample of people with a self-reported fear of flying, heights, spiders, dogs or needles.
Memory deficits are core features of schizophrenia, and a central aim in biological psychiatry is to identify the etiology of these deficits. Scrutiny is naturally focused on the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the hippocampal cortices, given these structures' roles in memory and learning. The fronto-hippocampal framework is valuable but restrictive. Network-based underpinnings of learning and memory are substantially diverse and include interactions between hetero-modal and early sensory networks. Thus, a loss of fidelity in sensory information may impact memorial and cognitive processing in higher-order brain sub-networks, becoming a sensory source for learning and memory deficits. In this overview, we suggest that impairments in magno- and parvo-cellular visual pathways result in degraded inputs to core learning and memory networks. The ascending cascade of aberrant neural events significantly contributes to learning and memory deficits in schizophrenia. We outline the network bases of these effects, and suggest that any network perspectives of dysfunction in schizophrenia must assess the impact of impaired perceptual contributions. Finally, we speculate on how this framework enriches the space of biomarkers and expands intervention strategies to ameliorate this prototypical disconnection syndrome.
Schizophrenia is a life disabling, multisystem neuropsychiatric disease mostly derived from complex epigenetic-mediated neurobiological changes causing behavioural deficits. Neurochemical disorganizations, neurotrophic and neuroimmune alterations are some of the challenging neuropathologies proving unabated during psychopharmacology of schizophrenia, further bedeviled by drug-induced metabolic derangements including alteration of amino acids. In first-episode schizophrenia patients, taurine, an essential β-amino acid represses psychotic-symptoms. However, its anti-psychotic-like mechanisms remain incomplete. This study evaluated the ability of taurine to prevent or reverse ketamine-induced experimental psychosis and the underlying neurochemical, neurotrophic and neuroinmune mechanisms involved in taurine's clinical action. The study consisted of three different experiments with Swiss mice (n = 7). In the drug alone, mice received saline (10 mL/kg/p.o./day), taurine (50 and 100 mg/kg/p.o./day) and risperidone (0.5 mg/kg/p.o./day) for 14 days. In the preventive study of separate cohort, mice were concomitantly given ketamine (20 mg/kg/i.p./day) from days 8 to 14. In the reversal study, mice received ketamine for 14 days before taurine or risperidone treatments from days 8 to 14 respectively. Afterwards, stereotypy behaviour, social, non-spatial memory deficits, and body weights were assessed. Neurochemical (dopamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine, glutamic acid decarboxylase, (GAD)), brain derived-neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and pro-inflammatory cytokines [tumor necrosis factor-alpha, (TNF-α), interleukin-6, (IL-6)] were assayed in the striatum, prefrontal-cortex and hippocampal area. Taurine attenuates ketamine-induced schizophrenia-like behaviour without changes in body weight. Taurine reduced ketamine-induced dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine changes, and increased GAD and BDNF levels in the striatum, prefrontal-cortex and hippocampus, suggesting increased GABAergic and neurotrophic transmissions. Taurine decreases ketamine-induced increased in TNF-α and IL-6 concentrations in the striatum, prefrontal-cortex and hippocampus. These findings also suggest that taurine protects against schizophrenia through neurochemical modulations, neurotrophic enhancement, and inhibition of neuropathologic cytokine activities.
Structural and functional abnormalities of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) have frequently been identified in schizophrenia. Alterations of von Economo neurons (VENs), a class of specialized projection neurons, have been found in different neuropsychiatric disorders and are also suspected in schizophrenia. To date, however, no definitive conclusions can be drawn about quantitative histologic changes in the ACC in schizophrenia because of a lack of rigorous, design-based stereologic studies. In the present study, the volume, total neuron number and total number of VENs in layer V of area 24 were determined in both hemispheres of postmortem brains from 12 male patients with schizophrenia and 11 age-matched male controls. To distinguish global from local effects, volume and total neuron number were also determined in the whole area 24 and whole cortical gray matter (CGM). Measurements were adjusted for hemisphere, age, postmortem interval and fixation time using an ANCOVA model. Compared to controls, patients with schizophrenia showed alterations, with lower mean total neuron number in CGM (- 14.9%, P = 0.007) and in layer V of area 24 (- 21.1%, P = 0.002), and lower mean total number of VENs (- 28.3%, P = 0.027). These data provide evidence for ACC involvement in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, and complement neuroimaging findings of impaired ACC connectivity in schizophrenia. Furthermore, these results support the hypothesis that the clinical presentation of schizophrenia, particularly deficits in social cognition, is associated with pathology of VENs.
As motor impairments have implications for health and functioning, they need to be addressed early, not only in childhood but also in adolescence, the period in which mental disorders as schizophrenia, typically develops. Further, the possible prognostic value of motor impairments in schizophrenia highlights the importance. The Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency (BOT-2) and the Movement Assessment Battery for Children (MABC-2) assess adolescent motor performance. However, MABC-2 is not valid past age 16 and has no sex-norms. Further, while the concurrent validity between the tests and their ability to distinguish between clinical and non-clinical groups has been established in children, however they have not been established in adolescence.
To compare the ability of MABC-2 and BOT-2 to distinguish between adolescents with and without schizophrenia, to examine the concurrent validity between tests, to examine the agreement between tests in classifying adolescents "at risk" or scoring "below average" and to examine the influence of age and sex on MABC-2.
Motor performance assessed by BOT-2 and MABC-2 was compared in 25 adolescents with schizophrenia (14-18) and age- and sex-matched controls using t-test, Cohen's D and false discovery rate's q-value. The associations between tests were assessed using Pearson's correlation and Lin's concordance correlation coefficient. The Kappa coefficient was used to assess the agreement between tests in classifying "risk/below average" and linear regression was adopted to assess the influence of age/sex on MABC-2.
MABC-2 and BOT-2 significantly distinguished adolescents with schizophrenia from controls with large effect size. A strong association (p > 0.001) was found between the tests. The tests revealed moderate agreement in identifying "risk" or scoring "below average". Only sex influenced MABC-2 scores.
MABC-2 and BOT-2 are both useful for assessing motor performance and distinguishing between adolescents with and without schizophrenia, although BOT-2 provides a more detailed picture of the challenges in adolescent with schizophrenia.
Cognitive development after schizophrenia onset can be shaped by interventions such as cognitive remediation, yet no study to date has investigated whether patterns of early behavioral development may predict later cognitive changes following intervention. We therefore investigated the extent to which premorbid adjustment trajectories predict cognitive remediation gains in schizophrenia.
In a total sample of 215 participants (170 first-episode schizophrenia participants and 45 controls), we classified premorbid functioning trajectories from childhood through late adolescence using the Cannon-Spoor Premorbid Adjustment Scale. For the 62 schizophrenia participants who underwent 6 months of computer-assisted, bottom-up cognitive remediation interventions, we identified MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery scores for which participants demonstrated mean changes after intervention, then evaluated whether developmental trajectories predicted these changes.
Growth mixture models supported three premorbid functioning trajectories: stable-good, deteriorating, and stable-poor adjustment. Schizophrenia participants demonstrated significant cognitive remediation gains in processing speed, verbal learning, and overall cognition. Notably, participants with stable-poor trajectories demonstrated significantly greater improvements in processing speed compared to participants with deteriorating trajectories.
This is the first study to our knowledge to characterize the associations between premorbid functioning trajectories and cognitive remediation gains after schizophrenia onset, indicating that 6 months of bottom-up cognitive remediation appears to be sufficient to yield a full standard deviation gain in processing speed for individuals with early, enduring functioning difficulties. Our findings highlight the connection between trajectories of premorbid and postmorbid functioning in schizophrenia and emphasize the utility of considering the lifespan developmental course in personalizing therapeutic interventions.
